[ Music ]
[ Silence ]
>> Regina Meredith: There
are severe repercussions
for most people who take
the path of whistleblower.
And when you add large sums
of money to the equation,
the game can become
down right mean.
Karen Hudes became an
inadvertent whistleblower when,
as an attorney for
the World Bank,
she began seeing corruption
throughout the system.
When she took it to the upper
echelon, she was ignored.
When she became more
insistent, she was fired.
Karen is with us today to tell
us why her findings should
matter to all of us.
And welcome, Karen.
It's so nice to have you here.
I've been very interested
in meeting you.
You've been to quite
a bit lately
and over the last several years
and it's not an easy
path you've chosen.
And not only that, you have
an audience here that, really,
I think most of us don't really
understand the nature of the IMF
and the World Bank and you
in conspiracies [inaudible]
and it becomes even more kind of
confused, clouded, and shadowed.
Yet, you're saying what
is happening at that level
and your own story within it
should matter to all of us
because we're in
precarious situation.
Can you tell us what that means?
>> Karen Hudes: Yes,
Regina, and thank you
so much for having me here.
>> RM: That was my pleasure.
>> KH: Well, this
matters a great deal
and the reason it matters is
because we are on the very edge
of a total financial meltdown.
And the reason why
it's so difficult
to understand what's going on
is it's not that complicated,
and I'll tell your listeners
just how straightforward it is.
It's very simple.
There are crooks and they're
trying to hide themselves
and they bought up all
the media, all the press,
and they are trying to keep
everybody from fighting
out the simple facts
and the simple truth.
And I will tell everybody
what those facts are.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> KH: And they will join
me and the rest of the team
because I'm one of a whole
slew of whistleblowers.
We're all working together.
We've got 188 Ministers
of Finance behind us.
We have got the whole
world behind us.
But we don't have the
American public behind us.
And once everybody
hears the facts,
they'll be behind
us too, I'm sure.
>> RM: I'm sure, but again,
you're trying to blast
through this, you have to know
we were talking off camera.
The options for becoming
educated are so clouded.
I mean, first, if you
go to mainstream media,
which people do by habit.
And they build-- you
know, every now and then,
they'll do something
that's intriguing and juicy
where you think, "Oh,
they're really trying
to make a difference."
Well, at-- you know, that's
almost like a lost lead
or item at a sale on a store.
That's just-- they're
tossing it out there.
But the reality is if you
want real information,
you're not going
to get it there.
And off camera, you
were saying that many
of the other alternative means
of finding information
are really just a part
of the stretch, the reach of the
same cabal that runs the media.
So how do people
even begin sorting
through what's true
and what's not.
That's one of the big questions.
>> KH: Nobody's going
to hand truth
to somebody on a silver platter.
People have got to learn
how to be discerning.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: And when you
hear what I have to say,
it's going to sound very
straightforward and you're going
to say, "My goodness, how
could they have covered
up such a simple
fact for so long?"
And the simple fact is that
the banks are all in cahoots.
They're all one organization.
The same directors go from
one bank to the other,
they tell each other
what's going on,
and they work together.
Well, guess what?
The countries of the world
are now all working together
and they're saying that
those crooks are going
to play by the rules.
It's just a matter of "it's
our world and we have a right
to have crooks play
by the rules."
That's all.
>> RM: And you've
really been trying
to uphold this for a long time.
You're like a girl scout in
the midst of all of it almost.
But, one thing you
came in contact
with was some information that
was really more mathematical
in nature in trying to sort
out where the essential power
within banking systems existed.
And there was a word that came
out of that that this very group
that was analyzing all this
data mathematically came to
and it was called
"super entity."
>> KH: That's right.
>> RM: The super entity.
We call it the cabal.
You can call it the elite.
You can call it many things,
but you like the term they came
up with which is super entity.
So if we use that again
during the conversation,
I'm just stating it upfront
because that's when--
an independent group came to
through a mathematical model
and said, "In banking
world, you--
" please tell what
their findings were,
just what you said.
>> KH: What they did was they
took very accurate information
about the 43,000 transnational
companies that are traded
on the stock markets
of the world.
And they look to see
who was in control
and they were very astonished.
It turns out that-- yeah, this
group has a fair amount of money
but the power that they had
grabbed was 10 times more
than you would have
otherwise expected
because they secretly put the
same people on the same boards.
And so everybody
could compare notes.
That's why the LIBOR
rate was rigged.
All of the markets are rigged.
If you are trying to invest
in the capital market,
there may be insider
trading for everybody else
but for those financial
institutions, they're, you know,
they've got everybody
coming and going
and the SEC is captured by them.
That's called regulatory
capture.
I have been reporting to the SEC
about how the World Bank
was breaking the rules
on financial disclosure.
The SEC was not home.
>> RM: No.
>> KH: The SEC would
not do anything.
But the point about
being a lawyer who went
to Yale Law School is I know how
to document this, and so I did.
And all of the letters
that I wrote to the SEC
and all the other
government entities
that were not doing their
job because they were part
of that regulatory capture.
You can read the letters.
You can then get in touch
with your government officials
and you can say, "Why weren't
you answering those letters?"
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: But, you know, I went to
the European Parliament in 2011.
I testified for them and
the European Parliament took
a chronology.
That's what they-- I said
what to whom and they sent
that chronology to
the World Bank.
And they said, "What do you
have to say about this?"
So that was in 2011.
And then in 2012, I
got two statements
up on the UK Parliament.
How did that happen?
One of the World Bank
whistleblowers is in Scotland
and the two of us
worked together and I met
with the UK Serious
Fraud Office in 2010.
The Serious Fraud
Office called up the SEC.
The SEC stonewalled.
And so when the UK
Parliament wanted
to know whether the UK
money that was going
for development assistant,
whether that was being spent
properly, I wrote them a letter.
I said the SEC stonewalled
the Serious Fraud Office.
No. The money is not
going the right way.
>> RM: Well, and
there's-- this is--
the system is right for this
and we really need to now back
up a bit and go to-- first
of all, give us a little bit
of background about
yourself before we go
into what the World Bank
is, how it was formed,
what it's supposed to do, but
what is actually happening.
Because this is a story
most people really truly do
not understand.
So, your own background.
Obviously, you're a
very smart lawyer,
but you went beyond that.
You also got a degree in Europe
from the University of Amsterdam
as I recall in economics
as well,
so you're uniquely
situated to be
in the position you're
in for good or bad.
Talk a little bit about that
and what have you really desired
to do with this career path
when you're young compared
to where you are now?
>> KH: Well, I'm a
very persistent soul,
and the other thing that
people ought to know
about me is I was captain
of the NYU fencing team.
So when people started
retaliating against me,
I remembered what my
Hungarian fencing taught--
coach had taught me, which was
see what foot they're on and go
in from the other side.
>> RM: And this really-- this
had to be almost spontaneous,
intuitive part of
your development.
>> KH: Well, he taught
me not to be intimidated.
When you get rattled and
lose your concentration,
you're wasting a very
good moment which is
when they're vulnerable,
when somebody is attacking
you, they're off-balance.
They can't defend and attack.
You simple defend and attack.
And as I'm going to
tell your listeners,
we got them on the riposte.
That's-- when somebody's
coming in to you,
you parry and you riposte.
The last riposte that I did
was on the 22nd of July,
which is when the Department
of Justice had arrested me
for criminal trespass.
They were ready to
throw me in jail.
>> RM: Yeah.
Now, we need to get
the back story on that.
They're saying, "What
is this lady--
what do they mean
they threw in jail?
For what?"
OK.
>> KH: They actually
did throw me in jail.
>> RM: I know, so
let's back up a bit.
OK. So you ended up-- you
were-- when you were young,
you were still new in
your career and you ended
up as an attorney
with the World Bank.
Is that correct?
And it's kind of an interesting
story but how you got there,
who brought you in,
and who you've been
in alignment with
this whole time.
Give us a little bit of
the back story there.
>> KH: OK.
Well, first of all, as I
told you all, I'm persistent.
So I got hired on
my fifth interview.
My first interview was
right out of law school
because I studied
development economics.
And if you're a lawyer and
you want to fight poverty,
the World Bank is
the place to go.
That's where you can be both
a lawyer and an economist.
So, they said, "Well, Karen,
you may know a little bit,
but you've never really
worked as a professional.
Go get your-- go learn
how to be a lawyer."
So I went to a big law
firm, Wall Street law firm,
and I learned securities law.
And then I went back
and they said, "Well,
you may know securities
law but you never worked
for a financial institution."
So I went to US Export-Import
Bank
which finances one-third
the amount of the World Bank
but what it is is it's
financing exports.
They called it Boeing's Bank.
We were financing
the sale of aircraft.
And so I did that.
And then I went back and,
you know, you don't need
to make a whole long
story short.
One time, one of the people
in the interview found
out that my mother who was an
elementary school principal had
lectured this man because his
daughter was getting frightened
of math.
And so, when he said, "Is your
mother Sylvia Hudes [assumed
spelling]" I said, "Yes",
and I could see by his face
that I didn't I get
the job that time.
But, anyway, so I went
back another time.
And that time was good.
And the person who brought
me in was Ibrahim Shihata
who was an Egyptian
who had worked at OPEC
and became the World
Bank General Counsel.
And so he hired me.
And the very first thing
he did was he put me
on the Jordan desk
and the Yemen desk.
And I worked very happily in
the Middle East for 10 years.
And then he reassigned me
because I started reporting
corruption in Yemen.
And--
>> RM: So you started
at what year?
When you started reporting the--
>> KH: I went to the
Word Bank in 1986.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: And it was in 95 that--
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: I started reporting
corruption in Yemen.
And so I was moved
to the Philippines.
And then I started reporting
corruption in the Philippines.
I have a sixth sense for--
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: -- corruption.
I mean, I'm sure they're
saying, "Oh, my God,
who was responsible
for bringing her in?"
OK. Now, what we're going
to do is take a look
at the institution
itself because, again,
most people are really
not very clear
on what the World Bank
is, what the IMF is.
And we're going to show a short
historical film that talks
about the origination
of the World Bank,
and this was in 1944, OK?
Let's take a look.
[ Music ]
>> [Background Music] At
Bretton Woods, New Hampshire,
delegates from 44 allied and
associate countries arrived
for the opening of the
United Nation's Monetary
and Financial Conference.
Invited by President Roosevelt
to the first major
world financial meeting
since the London Conference
of 1933, they will work
in the seclusion of this
White Mountains resort.
[ Music ]
Hsiang-his Kung, one of China's
representatives with Secretary
and Mrs. Henry Morgenthau.
United States Treasury
Secretary Morgenthau heads the
American delegations.
On the opening day, in his role
of acting conference president,
he addresses the meeting.
To b discussed are plans for the
stabilization of world currency.
All agreements must be
ratified by the governing bodies
of the nations involved
before becoming effective.
[ Music ]
Delegates to this Monetary
and Financial Conference
pose on the hotel log.
These meetings are
designed to promote trade
in the post-war world,
and to create a foundation
for a lasting peace.
[ Music ]
>> RM: Well, it's a lovely
public relation piece
from the very beginning.
And how far has the
agenda actually dropped off
from what we just saw there
are stayed true to what we--
it could mean we'd looked
the world at large and say,
"Well, that didn't happen."
But you say, "Yeah,
actually some
of this has been accomplished."
Let's to talk about that.
>> KH: Well, there were 44
countries in that conference.
There are now 188
countries that are members
of the World Bank and IMF.
They're talking about trying
to prevent a world war
because of currencies
being out of control.
And that's where
we are right now.
We're preventing World War
III because, for example,
the Federal Reserve
Board has refused
to give Germany back its gold.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: That's an act of war.
I don't know how they've
gotten away with that.
>> KH: We are--
>> RM: Seven years they said
before they're going to be--
>> KH: Yes.
>> RM: -- taken care of.
>> KH: We are on the
very edge of a war.
And I'm happy to tell you that
we're not going to have a war
because of the Bretton Woods
Institutions, because all,
188 ministers have
reinstated me as the lawyer
who understands what's going on.
When you have 188
countries in an organization,
you have to pay attention
to them.
And what's happened
is there was a rule,
called the Gentlemen's
Agreement.
That the United States
could appoint the president
of the World Bank and the
Europeans could appoint the
managing director of the IMF.
This lasted for 66 years.
And in 2004, I learned that if
the United States didn't stop
all of this corruption,
that we were going
to lose the Gentlemen's
Agreement.
That was a very accurate
stakeholder analysis
that I saw this was
going to happen.
And I started trying to
get the problem solved.
I did what a lawyer
is supposed to do.
I went to the audit committee.
I stayed internally
inside the World Bank.
And finally in 2007, I went
to the Treasury Department.
I went to the Treasury
Department
through Larry Summers,
whose child was
in the same elementary
school class as mine.
I would see him at a PTA meeting
and I would start harassing him
because I knew that
we were going
to lose the Gentlemen's
Agreement.
And sure enough, in 2010,
that's exactly what happened.
>> RM: So if we back up for
a moment, you were trying
to warn them about this.
Now, in one level, you know,
listening to it, I'd say, "Well,
the United States deserves
to lose that position
if we're operating in-- to
that degree of corruption."
On another level, you're saying,
"Let's fix the corruption
so that we can continue to
remain in that position," right?
I mean, did we deserve to
remain in that position is--
that's more of an
ethical argument.
What was your intention
when you first tried
to bring this to
their attention?
>> KH: Well, in 2006 and 2007,
I was in the US Congress,
all over the US Congress.
I went to the Senate
Committee on Foreign Relations,
that was then shared by Joe
Biden with Hillary Clinton
and Barack Obama
as junior senators.
I went to the senate
Committee on Finance.
And what was very interesting
was Senator Lugar had a series
of hearings on this corruption.
And one of the letters that
I wrote to Senator Lugar,
you can see it on my website,
was I said the German executive
director on the board said
that the board is being treated
like mushrooms, kept in the dark
and fertilizer put on them.
And that was exactly
what was going
on with the American public.
In 2007, I knew that the
public needed to know
about this corruption to
prevent the United States
from losing the Gentlemen's
Agreement.
This is a terrible thing.
We've lost our moral
leadership in front of all
of the countries of the world.
This is a terrible thing.
And it could have been prevented
and it wasn't presented
because this super
entity that I was talking
about owns all of the media.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: And that was why I
couldn't get my story out.
So the most important thing
that I think your listeners have
to consider is everything that
I'm telling you all today,
why didn't you hear
about it earlier?
You'll see the dates
of the letters.
>> RM: When people
go to your website--
>> KH: That's right.
>> RM: -- and start
really digging into it.
You can see-- you have
chronicled everything
as you said earlier at
the beginning of this.
>> KH: But also what
happened was,
it wasn't that the US
Congress was doing nothing.
The US Congress was asking
for a government
accountability office inquiry
into the corruption.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: That happened in 2008.
And then, in 2010, I went
to Organizing for America.
That is the group that
is very closely aligned
with raising funds for the
reelection of Barack Obama.
And I said, "You will
get bipartisan support
for fighting this corruption."
And they went to Senator Lugar
and then they called me back
and said, "Great, Karen.
Go to Senator Lugar."
And Senator Lugar
published a paper
which said the government
accountability office has
withdrawn from the
inquiry into corruption
because the World
Bank is stonewalling.
This is a very dramatic piece
of information which was kept
from the American public.
When the US lost the ability
to appoint the president
of the World Bank, this
is a very important piece
of information that was
kept from the public.
So what we are talking about
now is a massive cover up.
And I can tell you one of
the things that I reported
to the Congress which
I was very shocked by.
Paul Wolfowitz was
fired by the board
because he gave an exorbitant
pay raise to his girlfriend
who was working for
the World Bank.
And I speak Dutch, so I happen
to be in Holland when the man
who was in-charge of firing
Paul Wolfowitz said that all
of the executive directors
who went to the same house
of ill repute that Eliot Spitzer
lost his governorship from,
they were trying to intimidate
the board to prevent them
from firing Paul Wolfowitz.
I went back to-- first, I
went to the Senate Committee
on Foreign Relations
and told Senator Lugar
about this very shocking thing.
He said, "Go to the
Treasury Department."
I went to Kenneth Peel.
I ultimately went to the Senate
Committee on Intelligence.
Now, the Europeans are saying
with all of what's going
on with the NSA spying
on their officials, well,
they started getting very
angry about that back in 2010
when I first was
report reporting it.
So one of the things that--
the main message I want to get
out to your listeners
is don't get wild up now
because the news that's
giving you information
about all these concerning
events,
they're playing you
all like a piano.
>> RM: Absolutely.
>> KH: Don't go out and riot.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: We don't even demonstrate
because they're provocateurs
and people want them to
be a military take over.
And the fact of the mater
is I have documented all
of this information that
I'm telling your listeners
and where it is right now, it's
with the 10 governors that are
under an Executive
Order that was issued
by Barack Obama in 2010.
They are now liaising with the
Department of Homeland Security.
And I have gone to all of these
officials and I have said,
"There should be absolutely
no question in the minds
of the American public whether
there is a government here.
There is a government here,
where are the governors on this?
And you have to hold your
governors with them."
>> RM: OK, now explain who
were they representing?
What does that group
of people do?
The governors you just
spoke of in concert
with Homeland Security you said?
>> KH: If you read
the Executive Order,
that is there for
domestic peace.
That is there to intervene
in case of an uprising.
That's what that committee
was established for.
>> RM: OK, so now, there
are so many threads here.
Let's go back to a
comment you made earlier.
You were talking about the
fact that we're sitting
on the precipice of
economic collapse.
And that's the first way to have
insurrection among the public
at large, of course.
You start-- you don't have
enough money to survive
because of some kind of
collapse of the currency.
Now, you have people
in the streets
and everywhere else very,
very upset, we know that.
You said we're sitting
on the precipice of it
but it's not going to happen.
>> KH: That's right.
Because all of the governors
are going to follow the example
of the lead states which
have declared that gold
and silver is legal tender.
>> RM: OK, so that's where this
piece of the story comes in.
Now, when all this was coming
down, you told me off camera,
you started metal
straighters coming to you.
So, basically looking at
the market, the situation,
the devaluation of the dollar,
why were they coming to you
and what was your role in this?
What were you telling them?
>> KH: Well, they knew that I
had bought a World Bank bond
and that I had sued the World
Bank and the World Bank--
>> RM: As a bond holder?
>> KH: -- auditors, because
if you're a bond holder,
then the World Bank
has no immunity.
And I had all of
this data showing
that the financial
information that was going
to the public was not
accurate, was not reliable
because whistleblowers
were getting fired.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: Anybody that tried
to correct inaccurate
financial information.
Not just me but a whole
slew of whistleblowers.
Accountants were reporting
that the borrowers were being
overcharged their interest.
There were all kinds
of shenanigans going
on because this group, this
super entity felt that it was
so powerful and it had
control of the media
so it could act with impunity.
And it did act with impunity.
But it didn't count of the
fact that we, whistleblowers,
were going to enlist our
governments and we were going
to make sure that all
of the dire consequences
that this super entity is trying
to achieve would not happen.
And so, the governors
are going to make sure
that we do not have a currency
where no one has any confidence.
They will-- we don't
have to replace--
>> RM: So basically we're
going to the states.
I mean, the states are really
going to have to implement
on behalf of the people.
>> KH: Not just the states,
the counties as well.
We've gone to the counties.
And when I say we--
>> RM: OK, so it's getting
more and more local.
Now, when you're looking at
essentially surviving any kind
of devaluation of the dollar,
you're saying A, it won't happen
that way to begin with,
that they're not going
to let it collapse.
But it's really now
falling into the hands
of the counties and the states.
>> KH: And the public,
to make sure
that their officials do
their job before we lose the
credibility of the dollar.
>> RM: Yes.
Well, that seems like we're
just sitting right on the edge
of that, it's been
threatening for over a year.
>> KH: We can take steps.
We can take steps to
prevent this from happening
and we are taking steps to
prevent this from happening.
And if your listeners
demand information
from their officials,
they can get the ones
that aren't moving on this--
>> RM: Yeah.
>> KH: -- to move.
That's all.
>> RM: OK.
So I have a couple
questions here.
One, I want to go in to
the piece you just kind
of you mentioned briefly which
is going to a metals-backed,
gold-backed currency again.
The other one is a little
higher up the chain.
What is the relationship between
the Federal Reserve super
entities and the
IMF and World Bank?
I mean, one is created in '33
the other is created in '44.
What is the relationship
between the two?
Is one being run by the other?
>> KH: Well, there is
what you have on paper
and then there's what
you have in practice.
>> RM: No.
I want to know what
happens in practice.
>> KH: OK.
Well, let me start out
though with what's on paper.
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: Because the
fed does had a role.
There's something called the
National Advisory Council
which is chaired by the
Secretary of the Treasury
but it has the chairman
of the Federal Reserve
Board on it, Ben Bernanke.
And I've been writing that
group, it has the Secretary
of State, it has the chairman
of the Export-Import Bank,
it has all the Commerce
Department,
the Special Trade
Representative.
All of the departments in the
US government that have a role
to play in international
trade are
on the National Advisory
Council.
So I had written
these officials--
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: -- to find out what
they're planning on doing.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: And so, I got in
touch with the Office
of the Inspector General in
the Federal Reserve Board
and I said, "What is
Chairman Bernanke doing
in the middle of this crisis?"
And I got a letter back saying
that Chairman Bernanke
had nothing whatsoever
to do with it.
So I wrote them back and I
said, "We'll wait a minute.
No, he doesn't get off the hook.
I've been writing him
for years on this."
And as a matter of fact, the
very last letter that I wrote,
I said, "If you don't answer me,
I am sending this very letter
to all of the ambassadors
of the 188 countries.
And don't forget the
board knows me very well
because I had been there for
20 years and they also know me
as the person who went to
the US Congress to report
about how they were
getting blackmailed."
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: Yes.
And I was locked
down at the building
in 2000-- I guess it was 2009.
Because what I was
doing there was I said,
"All of this corruption
has gotten to the point
where we have to end a
convention," is what it is.
There was something which
early in the very beginning
in 1944 there was a
convention that the president
of the World Bank
could propose anything
and the board would wait
and vote up or down.
And this is just a convention.
They can say, "Well, there's too
much corruption and we are going
to follow all of the
powers of the board
that are in the articles."
And I said, "Yes.
This is-- it's time
for you to do that."
And right after I did that, I
was locked out of the building.
But, you know, I had also
been interviewed for the job
of general counsel and I was--
>> RM: For the World Bank?
>> KH: For the World Bank.
And I was asked the question,
why is there such
a high turnover?
Why do you have to have another
general counsel every year
or two?
>> RM: Very good question.
>> KH: Yes.
And I knew the answer
because one of the people
at that conference in
1944 was a young lawyer,
Dutch lawyer named
Aaron Broches.
And I got to know him
because I wanted to find
out what the real story is,
not just what the World
Bank is like on paper.
And so--
>> RM: And he was a general
counsel for how long?
>> KH: The longest
serving general counsel.
He was there for 20
years as general counsel.
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: And he said that
when Robert McNamara came
to the World Bank in 1968,
that's when the World Bank
started going really corrupt.
It's-- the general counsel is
really the most important job
in the World Bank because
if you have the president
who is ignoring the board,
if you have a good general
counsel they won't let
that happened.
Or as what I did when I went
to the board and I said,
"It is time now, not to sit
back and wait for the president
to propose something."
Now, what is that
president proposing?
He is there as a puppet
of the super entity.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: That's what
the reality is.
>> RM: So you learned
from this man
that you were just
speaking about?
That just that-- is that what
he taught you in essence?
>> KH: Yes.
He said, "You are not
there to be a puppet.
You are there to be a
lawyer, to have rule of law."
>> RM: To uphold
the rule of law.
>> KH: To uphold
And as you saw, the
World Bank was created
to prevent World War III.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: If the lawyer is sitting
there and following the rules,
you don't have World War III.
That's all.
It's just very simple.
>> RM: But going
back to the point
that these general counsels
were disappearing basically
at the rate of one a year, is
it because they were attempting
to impose the rule
of law and going
up against the puppet masters?
>> KH: No.
No. What they were doing
was they were getting fired
by the board.
>> RM: Oh, they're being fired.
OK.
>> KH: And then there
was a special inquiry.
And the United States tried
to have the board removed
from the World Bank.
There was a commission.
And, of course, the board
wasn't going to do that.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: Germany resigned
from commission.
It was just an embarrassment.
>> RM: Yes.
OK, so, now, let's
go back 'cause it's--
I was a little nervous about
talking to you honestly
because this is a story that
really requires 10 or 15 hours
to tell and we're trying to keep
it as streamlined and simple
as possible but it's hard to
do because without bringing
in tangential information,
other parts don't make sense.
So, saying that right here,
we have to jump back now,
that I want to get
back to what you said.
One of the ways of avoiding
the currency collapse is
by through these governors that
are on this-- it's not a board.
What did you say
the name of that?
>> KH: Well, there
are two levels.
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: There is the Board
of Executive Directors.
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: There's 25 of them
and the seven largest countries
have their own dedicated
executive directors.
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: So there's the US,
Britain, France, Germany,
China, Saudi Arabia, Japan.
And the rest of the countries
share an executive director.
They all work together--
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: -- to share an
executive director.
And that group is resident.
They are there all the time.
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: And then, you have
all 188 countries come
to the World Bank every--
twice a year and they
discuss what's going on.
And then, in between
those times,
there is something called the
Development Committee which acts
to safeguard the interest
of the 188 countries.
>> RM: OK.
So they're part of the
Development Committee.
And now, you just teased us
a little bit with a notion
of going back to
the metals-backed
or asset-backed currency of
some kind in five of the states.
I think it's five.
Is it four, five, or six
of the states in the US--
>> KH: Well, I know
that there are 12
that are considering
legislation--
>> RM: I think five have
already done it, haven't they?
>> KH: And there may be more.
What I did on Friday was I
asked a couple of the governors.
I called them up.
They called me up.
I asked a couple of the
governors who are concerned
about this very serious
problem to try
to convene the other governors.
And we have experts, world
experts, who can explain
to them why this is necessary.
We can explain this
to the citizens
who can also make their counties
and governors responsive
because we do have the
time to solve the problem.
>> RM: And demanding that we
move away from fiat currency
to an asset-backed currency?
>> KH: And we can do
it in a very smooth way
and it doesn't have to be
entirely precious metals.
There is room for other--
>> RM: Other assets.
>> KH: -- other assets,
other commodities.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: So, all that has
to happen is we have
to break the logjam
of lack of information
because the media
is all controlled
by this super entities.
It makes no sense at all.
>> RM: No, it doesn't.
I mean, only from their
point of view of course.
>> KH: Yes.
That's where it makes
a lot of sense.
>> RM: That makes a lot--
makes perfect sense.
So if we're looking now at those
markets, now, the same entities,
at least from what I read
and concess [phonetic]
of the situation, those same
super entities also control the
prices on those metals markets.
>> KH: They have not
only controlled them,
they manipulate them illegally.
>> RM: So how you--
and so if you have
that as a manipulated market,
and that's what we need to kind
of turn to in order to have some
kind of asset-backed currency--
>> KH: No.
No. No.
>> RM: How does this work?
>> KH: OK.
What happened was they only
got away with it for so long
until people understood
that they were trying
to fool everybody.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> KH: And it doesn't
work anymore.
The people are running
out to buy gold--
>> RM: Oh, yeah like crazy.
>> KH: -- to hoard it.
>> RM: And silver.
>> KH: Yes.
>> RM: Palladium.
So, what the super entity
was doing was they were
leasing gold.
Well, you can't lease
gold anymore.
It's stopped in July.
The price of the lease-- the 7th
of July got to be so expensive
that nobody was going to
lease their gold anymore.
They were also afraid that
they wouldn't get the gold back
at the end all of these.
>> RM: Tell us about
gold leasing?
Who's involved?
How does that work?
Who benefits?
Tell us what that means.
>> KH: What it is, that's the
reason that you have the fed
and the central banks.
Because when you have
that kind of power,
you can take real
gold and lease it.
And then the company that is
leasing the gold gets to count
that as their gold and the
company who is the lessor
of the gold, that's
saying one piece of--
one ton of gold exists
in two places.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: Well, that's impossible.
So that-- you're saying
that practice has
stopped as of July 7th?
>> KH: It has stopped it.
It has stopped because the
people who are leasing,
who are calculating
the price of the lease,
are taking the risk
that they will not--
>> RM: Sure.
>> KH: -- get the gold back
at the end of the lease.
>> RM: So what are the
ramifications globally
of stopping this practice?
>> KH: The ramifications are the
people understand even though
the super entity is writing
articles to try to explain this.
So for example, in Bloomberg,
there was an article trying
to give a good explanation for
why it doesn't really matter
when there's no more
leasing of gold.
And I wrote a comment, I said,
"This is putting
leotards on a pig."
[ Laughter ]
And then I described about
how I had had this problem
with the Department of Justice
trying to throw me in jail
when 188 Ministers of
Finance, they want me back
at the World Bank so we
can sit down and sort
out these problems while
there is still time.
That's the whole point.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: And they know, I-- you
know, I send them the emails
that I'm sending
to the governors.
And I said, "You know,
the governors are taking
you very seriously.
We're not in that dire
straits, and I'm getting
through to the American public.
So we can actually sit down and
come up with the transition,
so that the Bretton
Woods Institutions
that we were just seeing
actually achieved their purpose
of preventing World War III."
>> RM: Well, part of it is, as
I will ask-- you had mentioned,
the stabilization of
global currencies.
Now, we're talking about
the US currency right now.
We're talking about the dollar.
And as you say, there are
means by which we could keep it
from totally collapsing
but let's look at some
of other currencies around
the world and what's happened
in some other regions.
I mean, was it completely not
foreseen that this would happen
in Cyprus, Spain,
Italy, et cetera?
I mean, was this-- this
was a surprise to everyone,
the media acts like,
"Oh, what a surprise.
We had no idea."
That's not true.
>> KH: OK, let me tell you
about another whistleblower.
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: Do you remember
what happened
with the US Postal Service
where we said that we had
to tighten their belts because--
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: The reason why
is because they have
to prefund all of
their pensions.
This is an accounting rule.
And then, the bankers
go out and raised funds
on the capital markets
to finance--
to prefund the pensions.
Now, these postal workers aren't
going to be retiring next year.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: Why should all of that
money be sitting there liquid?
>> RM: For retirement
upfront, yes.
>> KH: Exactly.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> KH: Why are you
financing this upfront?
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: The reason why
is it's a very lucrative
and it's the same thing for
municipal financing or Detroit
or any of these things.
It's very lucrative practice
for these banks to go out.
So it's the same thing--
no, I'm not saying
that Cyprus doesn't
have a financial problem
but I'm saying the
answer is not immediately
to turn to austerity.
>> RM: Not only that, pilfering
the accounts of the depositors.
>> KH: Yes.
This is a solution that
makes sense if you're one
of the super entity and
makes no sense if you're one
of the people living in any
of these countries that's
going into austerity.
This is why we have to have
a very serious conversation
about what the conventions are.
Because the point is,
if you're not prefund--
let's go back to
what we were talking
about with prefunding
the pensions.
If you don't have to prefund
all of these pensions,
that you don't have to tax
people to pay the debt,
the interest on these
bonds that you're issuing.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: Well, if the money
stays with the people,
they buy goods and services.
The economy grows.
You don't have a depression.
This is a way to get more jobs.
>> RM: Keeping this circulating.
>> KH: Exactly.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> KH: This is a way to
keep more jobs instead
of keep more profits
in Wall Street.
So we need to have a
monetary conference
in the Bretton Woods
Institutions
and anywhere else
that makes sense.
But, first of all, all of
the people who are thinking
that they can just relax and let
the experts take care of things,
no, they need to
inform themselves.
There's something that they
call a democratic deficit.
Your Secretary of the
Treasury is going to all
of these meetings and
speaking on your behalf.
What do you know about
what he's saying?
what the conventions are?
You need to inform yourself.
You need to be involved.
You need to support the
people who are trying
to get this situation
regularized
so that the shots are not being
called by this super entity.
Who elected them?
Nobody. Why should they deny
information to the public?
They shouldn't.
That's all.
>> RM: Yes.
Well, as we talked about at the
beginning this conversation,
it's very difficult for people
to know who they can trust
with information anymore.
That's really a big one.
So when you have the super
entities creating media outlets
that are posing as alternative
media outlets for example,
this makes it even cloudier.
People almost have to go
to a crystal ball to figure
out who they can trust
and listen to any longer.
>> KH: Well, what they
need to do is talk
to their next door neighbor--
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: -- and do a study group.
>> RM: That is very true.
Taking it to the streets
and taking responsibility
ourselves as you said.
Now, there is a group
of countries taking
responsibility themselves.
We're talking about
the BRIC countries.
Let's talk about
what's happening
between the super entity-- super
entities and the BRIC countries,
and why the BRIC countries, and
please talk about who they are,
why they're-- each one of
these countries is involved,
what they're attempting to do.
>> KH: That's Brazil, Russia,
India, China, and South Africa.
And these countries,
if you add up the trade
that they have among
themselves, that's 25 percent
of international trade.
So what this means is the
dollar has been the currency
for international trade.
We have been financing
all of the trade
between these countries.
They said, "You know, I
think we've had enough
of the corruption of
this super entity.
Why don't we find a different
system for financing our trade?"
And so, at the last
spring meeting just before
that in April, they
announced that they were going
to setup their own
development bank.
And what they're going to do
is they are going to add up,
they're going to use barter.
They're going to add up who's
got a positive trade balance.
And they're going to
finance that with gold
and then they're going to take
the dollars that they have got,
surplus dollars that they don't
want anymore, and they're going
to lend them out through
this development bank.
So it's a way for them to get
rid of all of these surplus--
and where are these extra
dollars coming from?
They're coming from something
called quantitative easing.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: Every month,
we've got, you know,
printing press going
with paper currency.
Now, people aren't-- the demand
for the dollars is not
meeting the supply.
There is a surplus there.
And pretty soon, you're going
to risk the people will
not view these dollars as--
>> RM: As having value.
Sure.
>> KH: Exactly.
And so we have got to find us--
it doesn't have to be no
more dollars but we have
to find a smooth
transition to replace this--
they call it fiat currency.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: It's used
to be until 1971
that you could take a
dollar and you could go
to the Federal Reserve and
you would get the dollar's
equivalent in gold.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: I think it was at 35--
>> RM: -- cents a--
every dollars an ounce.
>> KH: -- 35 dollars an ounce.
Yes. OK. And by the way,
just before the US suspended
the convertibility of dollar
into currency, that's when
you had another situation
where there was no
more leasing of gold.
So the market is signaling that
we are getting to a situation
where we have got to
try something else.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: And the question is,
what are we going to
do with that time?
And what I'm telling you is that
I have been regularly in touch
with all of the governors.
I've written to them
about four or five times.
I call up their offices.
They call me up.
I've been in touch with the
188 countries and I've said
to the countries I'm in
touch with the governors.
And so, they know that we have
got a system up and running
and we have got to
make good time of the--
good advantage of the time to
come to some orderly transition.
>> RM: What about the notion
of nationalizing the currency
to basically disbanding the fed
and the United States, well,
such as in, I think is
North Dakota, isn't it?
>> KH: Yes.
Yes.
>> RM: The notion of
states and governments--
>> KH: You've studied
well for this.
>> RM: -- taking back the right
to print their own currency
on behalf of and for the people.
Do you see that as
a possibility even?
I mean, many people say,
"Why can't that we did find
a way to disband the fed?
Why can't we?
>> KH: Well--
>> RM: Or should we?
>> KH: Let's put it this way.
This is a conversation that
needs to be taking place.
In each and every state, they
need to decide whether they want
to follow the example of North
Dakota, whether they want
to do declare precious
metals as legal tender.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: This is a
conversation that needs
to be taking place right now.
>> RM: Now, it sounds
like this is
where the average person
can become involved
in the conversation.
We can understand that.
>> KH: Yes.
>> RM: I mean, that
we can comprehend.
Tell us the consequences of
not having this conversation,
in the near future as
far as you can see it?
>> KH: The consequence is
that you have left a legacy
for your children that
you may not want them
to have, which is--
>> RM: Spill it out.
>> KH: -- the super
entity is going
to decide what it wants to do.
And one of the things
that it may want
to do is to have FEMA camps.
>> RM: OK.
Now, let's go there
for a minute, OK?
One of the things you say
is that, if they continue
to manipulate currencies
and we don't have any power
over the currencies ourselves,
just these private bankers
that we call-- we're
calling the super entity,
that have their fingers
and everything,
else including the media.
How are we going to-- how
does that translate to FEMA
and the media get
putting out stories
that keep us basically pitted
against each other on a number
of levels, to create a
potential for martial law
or the enactment, if you may?
You and I talked
about this off camera.
If that's what they're trying
to do, what is their end game?
What's in it for them to
institute martial law?
To have us upset enough, to
have our dollar devalued enough,
to have us pouring angry enough
that they can institute
martial law.
What's the end game there?
>> KH: Because they will then
say anarchy is certainly not a
better alternative
than our solution
and they will come
with a solution.
>> RM: And do you
have an idea what
that solution is looking like?
>> KH: Well, it's not
going to be dollars
because nobody wants dollars.
It may be something
like a single currency.
>> RM: So that's where
the whole arguments
for one-world currency comes in.
>> KH: Yes.
But here's the problem.
We already saw that
the BRICS are insisting
on not going forward with that.
That's when you get
into World War III.
We don't need World War III.
Why is it in the
United States interest
to have the super entity
issuing a one-world currency?
That's not in our interest.
>> RM: No.
>> KH: Absolutely not.
And one of the things that,
you know, I've been in touch
with the Department of Defense
on this quite intensively
because the World Bank
is a knowledge bank.
So this was very accurate
stakeholder analysis.
In 2004, as a political
scientist named Jacek Kugler
came to me and he had
actually developed this--
it's using game theory.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: Using the ability
to analyze the situation,
translating it into numbers
and then letting the
computer do the simulation.
And, anyway, so I took Jasec
Kugler with me to Ghana
to see what was going on and
why a law wasn't getting passed.
>> RM: Just to see how this--
>> KH: Just to [inaudible]
it, to see how this model is.
>> RM: -- as a software,
how this plays out.
>> KH: OK.
And I can tell you that the
intelligence community has been
working with this model for
a number of years and it's 90
to 95 percent accurate.
If there's ever a disagreement
between the analysts
and the model, the model wins.
Anyway, so, and that was how
I could tell the Treasury
Department in 2007 that if
we didn't play by the rules,
we would lose the
Gentlemen's Agreement.
Bingo.
>> RM: Because this--
you had modeled it out.
>> KH: I had modeled
rule of law--
>> RM: Through that software.
>> KH: At the World Bank.
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: So what we have
is we have two models.
We have the model of
the world and the tra--
they call it power transition.
And what this model that Jasec
Kugler had done showed was
that if the United States
played by the rules,
we would work together
with our western allies.
And as the eastern Asia
countries grew more powerful
gradually over, say,
a period of 50 years,
there would be a peaceful
transition of power.
But it said, if we
tried to go it alone
and we didn't observe the
rule of law, we were going
to have a currency war and
China would come up very fast.
And I went to-- at that time
in 2008, I went to Chuck Hagel
who was then the
senator of Nebraska.
And I said, "Playing
cat and mouse
with these issues is a
terrible security risk
for the United States."
So when Chuck Hagel became
the Secretary of Defense,
I wrote the Defense Department.
I went to the Inspector
General and I said,
"There is a very
accurate model that's
in the Department of Defense."
And the person who was
the project manager
for that department wrote me
from LinkedIn and she knew
as well as I that we
needed to have rule of law
and take back the power
from that super entity.
And I have been following
this issue with--
>> RM: Talk about
David and Goliath.
>> KH: Well, I know.
>> RM: I love it.
I love it.
>> KH: They all know everybody.
And-- but don't forget
I've also been
in touch with the countries.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: And I've said to
the countries, "Well,
this is the letter that I have
been sending to the governors--
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: -- and the 10 governors
that are on this group
that are setup under the
Department of Homeland Security
and Peter Verga who is
the assistant secretary."
And then, when I see
an article that looks--
so for example, on July
4th, they were trying
to have armed people marching.
And so, I went to
these 10 governors.
It's-- one of the chair of
the-- there's two co-chairs,
my governor, Martin
O'Malley from Maryland is one
of the co-chairs and so is
Governor Branstad from Iowa.
I said, "Which would you
rather have, inciting riots
or that we have a
peaceful transition?"
And I said to all of the
188 ambassadors, I said,
"We are working the problem."
>> RM: And you're not alone.
I mean, there are people,
even people that are very,
very well-known and
what has been called the
conspiracy community.
I don't really like that term
for just revealing what's been
hidden shouldn't be called a
conspiracy but they're
also speaking
up saying the same thing.
"Don't take to the
streets and riot.
Just engage from the game and
start working through education
and creating the new game."
And so you're not
alone in saying that.
>> KH: What I'm trying to say is
that this new game is
very well articulate.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: And the information
is there.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: It's-- and the
parties are taking it very,
very seriously.
That's why I was reinstated
by 188 Ministers of Finance.
>> RM: What's happened?
You're reinstated then
went to jail or you went
to jail or then reinstated?
>> KH: OK.
Here is how beautiful it is.
There is a company named
AlliedBarton that hired all
of the security personnel.
So those people--
>> RM: No, let's
give the background.
You're trying to reenter what?
You're trying to
physically go where?
>> KH: Into the World Bank.
>> RM: OK.
>> KH: Yeah.
>> RM: There we go.
OK.
>> KH: And the Ministers
of Finance said, "OK-- "
>> RM: This is very
recently by the way.
>> KH: Well, the lawsuit was
settled on December 20th.
And then there was this
meeting on April 20th
when I was given
a security badge.
>> RM: Right.
So you were good to go,
if you come back home,
go back to your--
>> KH: I went in-- actually,
you know, I actually went
in on the 19th of April.
I went into the spring meeting.
>> RM: Right.
>> KH: And then, when I
went to go back on the 20th,
the Secret Service said
I couldn't go back in.
And I said, "Who are you
to say that I can't go?
Here's my security badge."
And then I went home
and I wrote a letter
to Julia Pierson who's the new
director of the Secret Service.
But before I sent it, I sent it
to my friends, all
of the countries.
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: I sent it to
the executive directors
and I sent it to
Dr. Belka who's--
>> RM: Basically saying
you have every right
to answer that [inaudible].
>> KH: I said, "If there's
anything in this letter--
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: -- that's incorrect, let
me know and I won't send it."
>> RM: So how did you end up--
we only have a couple
of minutes left.
How did you end up in jail?
[ Laughter ]
>> KH: OK.
So, that I was kind
of surprised.
>> RM: Oh, yeah, really?
>> KH: Actually, I was, because
I went to the chief of police
in the District of Columbia.
And I said, "If you
think that the governors
of the World Bank have
not reinstated me,
would you please let me know
because I'm going back
there in the afternoon.
Here's their email address,
just send them an email."
>> RM: Yes.
>> KH: And so, I
walked in there and--
[ Laughter ]
-- they called the police.
And when the police came,
they were two agents.
And one of them said--
I said, "You know,
why don't you call
your commander--
>> RM: Yeah.
>> KH: -- Michael Reese
and he will call Dr.
Belka and we'll be fine."
And the other one
put me in handcuffs
and put me in a police car--
>> RM: I don't know
if this was your--
>> KH: -- and threw me in jail.
>> RM: I don't know if this was
your highest or lowest points
in all of your efforts.
Certainly no good
deed goes unpunished.
>> KH: Well, you know, there
have been many twists and turns.
>> RM: They really happen.
>> KH: I have to say that I
am working together with a lot
of other whistleblowers and--
but some of these
people have been through.
>> RM: Oh, it's horrible.
I've interviewed some, yes.
>> KH: And so, I've actually--
>> RM: You're here
to talk about it.
But as you said off camera
and you said earlier--
we only have a few seconds left,
the reality is you
can do all of this.
You and all the whistleblowers
can put yourselves on the line.
But if we're not backing
you up, it has no power.
>> KH: I manage with
the stakeholder analysis
and with the people.
>> RM: That's right.
Karen, thank you so much
for taking the trouble
to come here and talk with us.
I know it's been very hard
to get your message out
and I think you've
been very inspirational
in putting it back on us.
That's where it needs to be.
Thank you so much.
>> KH: Thank you for having me.
>> RM: This is a story that is a
bottomless pit if you're looking
at it through the shadows but
Karen has brought the facts
to daylight for anyone
who cares to see.
You can go to her
website at kahudes.net
to begin following the
thread of this corruption
and the solutions for yourself.
For more on the hidden side of
how our global economies work,
you might also enjoy
my interviews
with Catherine Austin Fitts.
Until next time.
Thank you for joining
us here on Gaiam TV.
[ Noise & Music ]
[ Noise ]